README.md, before:

# CSerial

Cross-platform serial port implementation.

[Homepage](http://programming.rm5248.com/projects/c-serial/)

Based largely off of [JavaSerial](https://github.com/rm5248/JavaSerial),
CSerial aims to bring cross-platform serial programming to a computer near you.

The library is structured along the lines of the Apache Portable Runtime(APR).
It aims to provide as much low-level support as is required to create a working
serial port implementation.

CSerial is designed to be fully POSIX-compliant, however if it is not please
open an issue on GitHub.  See the 'Bugs' section for more details on this.

## Continuous Integration
[![Build Status](https://jenkins.rm5248.com/buildStatus/icon?job=CSerial-buildall
)](https://jenkins.rm5248.com/job/CSerial-buildall)

Find builds on [Jenkins!](https://jenkins.rm5248.com/view/CSerial/)

## Install(Debian-based systems)

There is an APT server setup that provides CSerial that you can find
[here](http://apt.rm5248.com/).  Note that because the 'nightly' repo 
contains packages for both amd64 and armhf, you may need to specify
the exact version to install, as otherwise it may attempt to install 
one from an incorrect arch.

## Build / Install from source

Building is done using CMake.  On Linux, this should be done like the 
following:

```bash
~$ mkdir CSerial_build
~$ cd CSerial_build
~$ cmake /path/to/CSerial_code
~$ make
~$ make install
```

On Windows, I recommend using CMake to create a new Visual Studio project and 
building the code that way.  I have not tested cygwin nor MinGW makefiles as 
generated by CMake.

## Example

For information on how to use the library, check out the [example program](
https://github.com/rm5248/CSerial/blob/master/examples/example_full.c)
under the 'examples' directory.

The simplified flow of how to use the library is below:

1. Allocate a new `c_serial_port_t` struct.  Note that this is an opaque type,
and can only be passed as a pointer.  Use the `c_serial_new` function.
2. Set the name of the serial port.  This is the actual serial port that will 
be opened.  It will be something like `/dev/ttyS0` on Linux systems, and 
`COM1` on Windows systems.  Use the `c_serial_set_port_name` function.
3. Set the serial port parameters.  By default, the port will be opened at 
`9600-8-N-1`.  Any other settings can be set with the appropriate setters.
  * To set the baud rate, use `c_serial_set_baud_rate`
  * To set the number of data bits, use `c_serial_set_data_bits`
  * To set the number of stop bits, use `c_cserial_set_stop_bits`
  * To set the parity, use `c_serial_set_parity`
  * To set the flow control, use `c_serial_set_flow_control`
4. (optional) Set the serial line change flags.  This determines what changes 
on a serial line will cause a read to return.  By default, no flags are set.
Use the `c_serial_set_serial_line_change_flags` function to set the flags.
5. Open the port.  Use `c_serial_open`
6. Read and write data.  Use `c_serial_read_data` and `c_serial_write_data`, 
respectively.

## Logging

The library has some rudimentary logging.  This may be set as either a global 
log function, or as a log function per-port.  There exists a simple 
implementation of a logger which will print out every message to stderr.  This 
is intended for use with a secondary logging framework, so that logs may all 
be used by one logging facility.

The relevant functions for logging are `c_serial_set_log_function` for logging 
a single serial port, and `c_serial_set_global_log_function` for logging 
all messages.  Note that some messages can only go to the global log function, 
as there is not always a serial port associated with some of the operations.

## Other Important Functions

Note that all functions can be see in the Doxygen documentation with 
the proper documentation.  

The following presents a brief list of other functions which may be 
important:

* `c_serial_get_serial_ports_list` - Go through the system and find all of 
the valid serial ports.
* `c_serial_get_last_native_errnum` - Return the last native error number.  
This corresponds to `errno` on POSIX and `GetLastError` on Windows.
* `c_serial_[set|get]_user_data` - Set / get user data(`void*`) associated 
with the port.
* `c_serial_get_available` - Get the number of bytes to read.
* `c_serial_get_native_handle` - Get the native handle(int on POSIX, HANDLE on 
Windows) for raw I/O access
* `c_serial_get_poll_handle` - Get the handle used to poll for changes on a 
port.  Useful for use with a `poll()`-like function.  On POSIX systems, this
returns the same as `c_serial_get_native_handle`.  On Windows, this returns
a `HANDLE` corresponding to an event created with `CreateEvent` on the 
`OVERLAPPED` struct associated with the serial port.

### RTS Handling

The library also supports toggling of the RTS line when transmitting data 
over the serial port.  This is generally used for RS-485 transmitting.  This 
can be set to several different settings(see the enum CSerial_RTS_Handling 
for more details).  If set to HARDWARE, this will attempt to use the built-in 
kernel level functions for controlling the RTS line(using `struct serial_rs485` 
on Linux, or setting `fRtsControl` on Windows).  Setting it to SOFTWARE will 
cause the library to manually toggle the RTS line when sending data.

## Bugs

Questions?  Bugs?  Open an [issue](https://github.com/rm5248/CSerial/issues)
 in GitHub and I will take a look at it.

## License
Licensed under Apache 2.0

Commit message:

create a package that can be used by cmake

README.md, after:

# CSerial

Cross-platform serial port implementation.

[Homepage](http://programming.rm5248.com/projects/c-serial/)

Based largely off of [JavaSerial](https://github.com/rm5248/JavaSerial),
CSerial aims to bring cross-platform serial programming to a computer near you.

The library is structured along the lines of the Apache Portable Runtime(APR).
It aims to provide as much low-level support as is required to create a working
serial port implementation.

CSerial is designed to be fully POSIX-compliant, however if it is not please
open an issue on GitHub.  See the 'Bugs' section for more details on this.

## Continuous Integration
[![Build Status](https://jenkins.rm5248.com/buildStatus/icon?job=CSerial-buildall
)](https://jenkins.rm5248.com/job/CSerial-buildall)

Find builds on [Jenkins!](https://jenkins.rm5248.com/view/CSerial/)

## Install(Debian-based systems)

There is an APT server setup that provides CSerial that you can find
[here](http://apt.rm5248.com/).  Note that because the 'nightly' repo 
contains packages for both amd64 and armhf, you may need to specify
the exact version to install, as otherwise it may attempt to install 
one from an incorrect arch.

## Build / Install from source

Building is done using CMake.  On Linux, this should be done like the 
following:

```bash
~$ mkdir CSerial_build
~$ cd CSerial_build
~$ cmake /path/to/CSerial_code
~$ make
~$ make install
```

On Windows, I recommend using CMake to create a new Visual Studio project and 
building the code that way.  I have not tested cygwin nor MinGW makefiles as 
generated by CMake.

## Example

For information on how to use the library, check out the [example program](
https://github.com/rm5248/CSerial/blob/master/examples/example_full.c)
under the 'examples' directory.

The simplified flow of how to use the library is below:

1. Allocate a new `c_serial_port_t` struct.  Note that this is an opaque type,
and can only be passed as a pointer.  Use the `c_serial_new` function.
2. Set the name of the serial port.  This is the actual serial port that will 
be opened.  It will be something like `/dev/ttyS0` on Linux systems, and 
`COM1` on Windows systems.  Use the `c_serial_set_port_name` function.
3. Set the serial port parameters.  By default, the port will be opened at 
`9600-8-N-1`.  Any other settings can be set with the appropriate setters.
  * To set the baud rate, use `c_serial_set_baud_rate`
  * To set the number of data bits, use `c_serial_set_data_bits`
  * To set the number of stop bits, use `c_cserial_set_stop_bits`
  * To set the parity, use `c_serial_set_parity`
  * To set the flow control, use `c_serial_set_flow_control`
4. (optional) Set the serial line change flags.  This determines what changes 
on a serial line will cause a read to return.  By default, no flags are set.
Use the `c_serial_set_serial_line_change_flags` function to set the flags.
5. Open the port.  Use `c_serial_open`
6. Read and write data.  Use `c_serial_read_data` and `c_serial_write_data`, 
respectively.

## Logging

The library has some rudimentary logging.  This may be set as either a global 
log function, or as a log function per-port.  There exists a simple 
implementation of a logger which will print out every message to stderr.  This 
is intended for use with a secondary logging framework, so that logs may all 
be used by one logging facility.

The relevant functions for logging are `c_serial_set_log_function` for logging 
a single serial port, and `c_serial_set_global_log_function` for logging 
all messages.  Note that some messages can only go to the global log function, 
as there is not always a serial port associated with some of the operations.

## Other Important Functions

Note that all functions can be see in the Doxygen documentation with 
the proper documentation.  

The following presents a brief list of other functions which may be 
important:

* `c_serial_get_serial_ports_list` - Go through the system and find all of 
the valid serial ports.
* `c_serial_get_last_native_errnum` - Return the last native error number.  
This corresponds to `errno` on POSIX and `GetLastError` on Windows.
* `c_serial_[set|get]_user_data` - Set / get user data(`void*`) associated 
with the port.
* `c_serial_get_available` - Get the number of bytes to read.
* `c_serial_get_native_handle` - Get the native handle(int on POSIX, HANDLE on 
Windows) for raw I/O access
* `c_serial_get_poll_handle` - Get the handle used to poll for changes on a 
port.  Useful for use with a `poll()`-like function.  On POSIX systems, this
returns the same as `c_serial_get_native_handle`.  On Windows, this returns
a `HANDLE` corresponding to an event created with `CreateEvent` on the 
`OVERLAPPED` struct associated with the serial port.

### RTS Handling

The library also supports toggling of the RTS line when transmitting data 
over the serial port.  This is generally used for RS-485 transmitting.  This 
can be set to several different settings(see the enum CSerial_RTS_Handling 
for more details).  If set to HARDWARE, this will attempt to use the built-in 
kernel level functions for controlling the RTS line(using `struct serial_rs485` 
on Linux, or setting `fRtsControl` on Windows).  Setting it to SOFTWARE will 
cause the library to manually toggle the RTS line when sending data.

## Bugs

Questions?  Bugs?  Open an [issue](https://github.com/rm5248/CSerial/issues)
 in GitHub and I will take a look at it.

## CMake support

In order to use CSerial in a CMake based project, you can use `find_package`
to properly find and link with it.  For example:

```
find_package(cserial)

add_executable(my-program my-program.c)
target_link_libraries(my-program PRIVATE cserial)
```

## License
Licensed under Apache 2.0
